Minor updates to importing custom operators guide (#295)
astronomer/airflow-guides: guides/airflow-importing-custom-hooks-operators.md

---
title: "Importing Custom Hooks & Operators"
description: "How to correctly import custom hooks and operators."
date: 2019-05-29T00:00:00.000Z
slug: "airflow-importing-custom-hooks-operators"
heroImagePath: null
tags: ["Hooks", "Operators", "Plugins", "Basics"]
---

## Overview

> One of the great benefits of Airflow is its vast network of provider packages that provide hooks, operators, and sensors for many common use cases. But another great benefit of Airflow is that because everything is defined in Python code, it is highly customizable. If a hook, operator, or sensor you need doesn't exist in the open source, you can easily define your own. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the great benefits of Airflow is its vast network of provider packages that provide hooks, operators, and sensors for many common use cases. Another great benefit of Airflow is that because everything is defined in Python code, it is highly customizable. If a hook, operator, or sensor you need doesn't exist in the open source, you can easily define your own. 
```

> In this guide, we'll cover everything you need to know to make your custom code available to your DAGs. We'll touch briefly on defining custom operators, but will mostly focus on how to add them to your Airflow project. Throughout, we'll focus on custom operators to keep things simple, but the same concepts apply to custom hooks or sensors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we'll briefly explain how to define your own custom code. Then, we'll cover everything you need to know to make custom code available to your DAGs. We'll use custom operators as our primary example, but these same concepts also apply to custom hooks and sensors.
```

## Defining a Custom Operator

> At a high level, creating a custom operator is straight forward. It should inherit from the `BaseOperator`, and define `Constructor` and `Execute` classes. This will look something like the code below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a high level, creating a custom operator is straightforward. It should inherit from the `BaseOperator`, and define `Constructor` and `Execute` classes. This will look something like the code below:
```

> At a high level, creating a custom operator is straight forward. It should inherit from the `BaseOperator`, and define `Constructor` and `Execute` classes. This will look something like the code below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a high level, creating a custom operator is straightforward. At a minimum, all custom operators must:

- Inherit from the `BaseOperator`.
- Define `Constructor` and `Execute` classes. 

This will look something like the code below:
```

```python
from airflow.operators.bash_operator import BaseOperator
from airflow.utils.decorators import apply_defaults
from hooks.my_hook import MyHook

class MyOperator(BaseOperator):

    @apply_defaults
    def __init__(self,
                 my_field,
                 *args,
                 **kwargs):
        super(MyOperator, self).__init__(*args, **kwargs)
        self.my_field = my_field

    def execute(self, context):
        hook = MyHook('my_conn')
        hook.my_method()
```

> If your custom operator is modifying functionality of an existing operator, your class may inherit from the operator you are building off of instead of the `BaseOperator`. For more detailed instructions on defining custom operators, check out the [Apache Airflow How-to Guide](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/custom-operator.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your custom operator is modifying functionality of an existing operator, your class can inherit from the operator you are building off of instead of the `BaseOperator`. For more detailed instructions on defining custom operators, check out the [Apache Airflow How-to Guide](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/custom-operator.html).
```

## Importing Custom Operators

> Once you have your custom operator defined, you need to make it available to your DAGs. Some legacy Airflow documentation or forums may reference registering your custom operator as an Airflow plugin, but this is not necessary. In general, the file containing your custom operator needs to be in a directory that is present in your `PYTHONPATH` for you to import it into your DAG file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have your custom operator defined, you need to make it available to your DAGs. Some legacy Airflow documentation or forums may reference registering your custom operator as an Airflow plugin, but this is not necessary. To import  a custom operator into your DAGs, the file containing your custom operator needs to be in a directory that is present in your `PYTHONPATH`.
```

Airflow by default will add the `dags/` and `plugins/` directories in a project to the `PYTHONPATH`, so those are the most natural choices for storing custom operator files (check out the [Airflow Module Management](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/modules_management.html) docs for more info). Your project structure may vary depending on your team and your use case. At Astronomer, we use the structure shown below, and recommend putting custom operator files in the `plugins/` directory with sub-folders for readability.

```bash
.
├── dags/                    
│   ├── example-dag.py
├── Dockerfile                  
├── include/                 
│   └── sql/
│       └── transforms.sql
├── packages.txt     
├── plugins/             
│   └── hooks/
│       └── my_operator.py
│   └── sensors/
│       └── my_sensor.py
└── requirements.txt    
```

> For more details on why we recommend this project structure, check out our [Managing Airflow Code](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/managing-airflow-code) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on why we recommend this project structure, check out our [Managing Airflow Code guide](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/managing-airflow-code).
```

Once you have your custom operator defined, you need to make it available to your DAGs. Some legacy Airflow documentation or forums may reference registering your custom operator as an Airflow plugin, but this is not necessary. In general, the file containing your custom operator needs to be in a directory that is present in your `PYTHONPATH` for you to import it into your DAG file.

> Airflow by default will add the `dags/` and `plugins/` directories in a project to the `PYTHONPATH`, so those are the most natural choices for storing custom operator files (check out the [Airflow Module Management](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/modules_management.html) docs for more info). Your project structure may vary depending on your team and your use case. At Astronomer, we use the structure shown below, and recommend putting custom operator files in the `plugins/` directory with sub-folders for readability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow by default will add the `dags/` and `plugins/` directories in a project to the `PYTHONPATH`, so those are the most natural choices for storing custom operator files (check out the Apache Airflow [Module Management docs](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/modules_management.html) for more info). Your project structure may vary depending on your team and your use case. At Astronomer, we use the structure shown below, and recommend putting custom operator files in the `plugins/` directory with sub-folders for readability.
```

	sens >> op
```

> And that's it! There is no need to define an AirflowPlugin class in any of the files.

Reviewer: I'd reword this sentence to relate more closely to what it's referencing (which I assume is `Some legacy Airflow documentation or forums may reference registering your custom operator as an Airflow plugin, but this is not necessary.`). Also probably fine to remove it entirely?
